---
title: 'How to lint C/C++ codes in Sublime Text 3'
date: 2021-10-16
permalink: /posts/2021/10/lint-c++
tags:
  - Sublime Text 3
  - MacOS
  - Clang-Format
  - C/C++
---

Many IDEs can make our life easier by formatting the codes automatically. But for a C/C++ (re)beginner with an old Macbook Pro like me, I would prefer a lightweight text editor such as Sublime Text 3, where I can write and test simple codes without triggering the annoying fan and excessive heat from CPU. In this post, I will share how to lint C/C++ codes within Sublime Text 3 on MacOS. If your mac does not have C/C++ compiler yet, please refer to this [page](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/different-ways-to-setting-up-environment-for-cpp-programming-in-mac/).

First, install the package `Clang Format` in Sublime Text 3. You could open the command palette with `cmd + shift + p`, type `Install Package` and press `enter`. Type in `Clang Format` and press `enter`. You can find more information of the package Clang Format [here](https://packagecontrol.io/packages/Clang%20Format).

Go to the LLVM download [page](https://releases.llvm.org/download.html) and redirect to a GitHub release of your choice. I will use [LLVM 13.0.0](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/releases/tag/llvmorg-13.0.0) in the following. For MacOS, choose the download link `clang+llvm-13.0.0-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.xz`. Unzip the file and find the binary at `clang+llvm-13.0.0-x86_64-apple-darwin/bin/clang-format`. Copy this `clang-format` to a location in your `PATH`, such as `~/bin/` in my case.

Open a `.cpp` file. Open the command palette, type `Clang Format: Set Path` and type in the path to the above-mentioned `clang-format`, such as `/Users/billywu/bin/clang-format` in my case. If you want to use [Google C++ Style](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html), Open the command palette, type `Clang Format: Select Style`, and then select `Google`.

Now, you are ready to lint your C/C++ code! Simply select the code block (or use `cmd + a` to select all), Open the command palette, then type `Clang Format: Format Selection`. If you want to format the code whenever you save it, Use your cursor and go to `Sublime Text > Preferences > Package Settings > Clang Format > Settings - User`. It will open `clang_format.sublime-settings` in a new tab. Add one line to the file such as,
```json
{
	"style": "Google",
	"binary": "/Users/billywu/bin/clang-format",
	"format_on_save": true,
}			   
```

Save the file and exit. Now whenever you save the file (`cmd + s`), you can trigger the linter. Enjoy coding!

BTW, I use the following [build system](https://www.sublimetext.com/docs/build_systems.html) config file (located at `~/Library/ApplicationSupport/Sublime\ Text\ 3/Packages/User/`) for C/C++,
#### **c++17.sublime-build**
```json
{
    "shell_cmd": "g++ -Wall -Wextra -O2 -fwrapv -Wfloat-equal -Wconversion -std=c++17 \"${file}\" -o \"${file_path}/${file_base_name}\"",
    "file_regex": "^(..[^:]*):([0-9]+):?([0-9]+)?:? (.*)$",
    "working_dir": "${file_path}",
    "selector": "source.c++",

    "variants":
    [
        {
            "name": "Run",
            "shell_cmd": "g++ -Wall -O2 -fwrapv -Wfloat-equal -std=c++17 \"${file}\" -o \"${file_path}/${file_base_name}\" && \"${file_path}/${file_base_name}\\""
        }
    ]
}

```
